# Effect-of-Baclofen-treatment-on-ciliogenesis-and-GABAB-receptor-Signaling-Patway
Research Methods course 

Nematostella vectensis is a well-known model organism that combines a simple life cycle and well-established genomic resources as a model organism for studying ciliogenesis. Already on the third day after fertilisation, planulae are actively swimming because their entire body is covered with primary cilia. Cilia is an important animal organelle specialised for cell signaling, fluid flow and cell movement (1). Cilia dysfunction causes in humans severe diseases that are known as ciliopathies. The GABAB-protein-coupled receptor signalling pathway plays a vital role during neurogenesis in mammalian, however, there are few studies on Nematostella (2). Our previous findings, using human GABAB-receptor agonist drug-baclofen, demonstrated that Nematostella planula neurogenesis, ciliogenesis and metamorphosis was reversibly arrested (3). Our lab also found that GABAB-protein-coupled receptor signalling pathway is associated with cilia aberrations. The main aim of my study is to investigate the effect of baclofen on the process of ciliogenesis in Planula.

The first stage of the work will be to analyse the movements of two control groups. 1 group planul control and 2 group planul treated. My aim is to understand how baclofen affects secondary ciliogenesis of cilia after their removal. Therefore, I will apply the Western Blot method to elucidate the changes in the proteins synthesised by the planulae during secondary ciliogenesis. In addition, this study will open new avenues for comparative studies of cilia function and evolution and, in particular, may contribute to our understanding of cilia pathophysiology and the role of the GABA-B signalling pathway in ciliopathies
